- Kristoffer Van Steemberghe Luján (319206463)
- 4 de octubre, 2024.

## Comentario personal.

The research addresses classical algorithmic problems, such as k-“ism” statistics and nearest and furthest point pair search, by adapting them to a dataflow model. This is crucial in a world where the amount of information generated is immense and memory and time constraints are constant considerations. The ability to adapt existing algorithms to new operating conditions is a valuable approach that can facilitate the implementation of efficient solutions in real systems.

The importance of this thesis lies in its focus on the efficiency and adaptability of algorithms in a massive data context. As companies and organizations generate and process more data, the need for algorithms that can operate under resource constraints becomes critical.

To conclude, the information in this thesis helped me to understand new concepts or to reinforce some that I had already heard about. I found the way in which the text is written very pleasant, since it makes it understandable to people who do not know much about the subject.


### Tesis y resumen.

Al final de este documento se encuentra la tesis subrayada.


## Bibliografía.

Cruz Zagasta, G. (2017). Algoritmos para la k-ésima estadística, la pareja de puntos más cercana y más lejana en el modelo de flujo de datos (J. D. Flores Peñaloza & A. Castañeda Rojano, Eds.) Tesis de maestría, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. https://132.248.9.195/ptd2017/julio/0761733/Index.html.
