- Kristoffer Van Steemberghe Luján (319206463)
- 14 de noviembre, 2024.

## Comentario personal.

“Analytics and Big Data” is a book that mentions new data concepts for me. The chapter I selected is **Descriptive Analytics and preprocessing**, I chose it since I was curious about the title. Among the most interesting things I read is the following, to which I quote the authors **Maldonado Sebastián and Vairetti Carla**:  

- *Exploratory data analysis*: The main goal is twofold, to find early patterns and trends in the data and to identify problems in the data. The first task is considered as *descriptive analytics*, while the second one corresponds to *step zero* of processing, and allows us to design an error correction strategy to prepare our data for predictive modeling.  

- *Data cleaning*: After having reviewed the data and identified errors in it using techniques for EDA, we proceed to correct these missing values and inconsistencies. Having a clean data set is key for the correct application of predictive models.  

- *Data transformation*: After the cleaning stage, our database no longer has errors that affect the performance of the models.  

- *Attribute selection*: This approach consists of selecting a subset of variables that is relevant to the problem being addressed, eliminating those that generate noise and may confuse the model.

To conclude with this brief opinion, I noticed a certain similarity of this topic with probability distributions, especially with the *Normal Distribution*, since the more data we have, the better our model will be and the better results we will obtain.


### Capítulo del libro y resumen.

Al final de este documento se encuentra el capítulo subrayado.


## Bibliografía.

Maldonado, Sebastián, and Carla Vairetti. Analytics y Big Data: Ciencia de los Datos aplicada al mundo de los negocios. Ril editores, 2022. Digitalia, https://www.digitaliapublishing.com/a/117166.